In this section I'm discussing about string basics.
That is the string data type and also bit of Unicode do for Unicode.
I have already discussed in detail in one of my Udemy tutorial, which is all the regex or regex string
data type in JavaScript is easy to handle.
JavaScript does not have a single character data type like we have in C, C++ or other traditional languages.
String is a separate data type, but that can be used for single character and multiple characters.
When it comes to declaring a variable as a string, you can use double code, single course or even
back disks to deal with the string data types back tick.
We will see in the next section as it is about a new feature called template literal or template string
introduced in ESX.
So let's tweak with double and single code syntax for this section.
If I have to declare a string variable, normally what I do is I declare it with the variable name and
for example I give double quotes.
Let's say I am not new to JavaScript.
That's what I want to say.
Of course I'm going to use the console.log and I'm going to display this value.
So this is a string data type.
Let me just run this.
Now you see that the output is I am not new to JavaScript.
Now, for example, I want to display this.
I am not new to JavaScript this way.
So what I can do is I can use a single code in between.
Now, if I run this, this will display it as it is.
Now, imagine that if I declare this particular string with single codes, which is a valid syntax as
such when you have to declare the string.
But because you wanted to have a single code in between, then you will prefer to have double codes
for the string declaration.
Because if I use single codes here, then it will give me an error because this is the closing of this
particular single code.
So either you use double code to declare a string.
Say for example, like this I am not new to JavaScript.
Now this is single code and this is fine.
Right.
Because in between I am not using any single codes.
Now, in this case, if I have to use, let's say, double codes in between, I can do that because
the entire string begins with a single code and ends with a single code.
So in between, if I have to display double codes, it's easy.
So I use the single code to declare it.
Now let's run this.
You see, that is no issue.
Normally in traditional languages or even in JavaScript, we have the escape sequences.
Say, for example, when you have to display, let's say, in the same case, I want to display like
this, I want to use this.
Only then I can use the escape sequence.
That is, I'll slash before the character, which is actually a special character.
I'm giving an instruction by giving a slash that this character is not the end of the code.
Read that as a normal character.
So now if I run, there will not be any issue.
Let me clear the console first and I'll run this.
You see this now?
There is no problem.
But even if you do not want to use skip characters or skip sequences, suddenly you can tweak with double
quotes are single code in between.
Now, as I mentioned about this slash and code escape sequence is a very common way you must have known
by C C++ are all traditional languages use escape sequence for example.
I want to add a new line here.
Let's say I'm again writing, I'm not sorry, I'm not new to JavaScript.
Now let's say I want to have a new line here.
So what I will say, I'll say slash.
And so the slash end means that it's a special character, special instruction that is a new line.
So now if I run, you'll see that the message is displayed on the new line.
The way we have slash and we have slash for tab slash are for carriage return.
If you want to display, for example, slash only like this, say for example, I want to display slash
here.
If I run, it does not display the slash, right?
I want to display.
So again, it begins with slash only.
So this is that.
This second slash is a special character but displayed as a string.
So now if I run.
A single slash is displayed.
So when you have special characters which have some instruction, but you want to treat those characters
as a normal character or a display character, you can begin that with a slash inside a string, which
we call as an escape sequence or escape character.
Now, as I mentioning about escape characters, I must mention one very useful escape sequence, and
that is the slash you.
Slash, who is also one of the sequence which will allow you to work with Unicode characters.
As such, the string data type is stored in UTF 16 format, but in case if there is a special character
to be displayed, then Unicode is represented with a four digit hexadecimal number to display this character.
You can use slash u and there will be a four digit hexadecimal number.
Let's practically try one.
For example, you want to show the copyright sign, then the hex value for a copyright sign is double
zero in nine.
So I'm going to say here, I just remove this.
I'll say 00a9.
Now this is a value which I want to display as a copyright, but if I run this, this is directly 0089.
Now I want to give an instruction that this is the hexadecimal value and I'm referring the Unicode.
So now you see, I have given slash you if I ran this, that is a copyright sign displayed.
Sometimes you may want to refer the longer Unicode numbers in long Unicode numbers.
So for example, if you refer to the Unicode chart, you will see that the emoticon range is from 1f60121f6
for F that means it is not four digit hexadecimal, but it's five digit long hexadecimal.
Now if I give let's slash u, for example, the very first smiley is 1f601.
So there are five which is one, two, three, four and five digits we have.
Right.
If I run this, it doesn't display the desired result.
I want that it should display the smiley only when it comes to longer unicode.
You have to cover the unique or hex value in curly brackets.
Now let me just clear this and run.
Now you see there is a smiley now C instead of 601, I'll just say 602 or maybe three because the range
for emoticon is this one.
So now I change this to three.
Let me run.
And you will see a different smiling.
So you can deal with unicode using the slash you inside a stream.
So these are a few very basic things about the string that our timetable coaching doesn't matter.
In the next section will be dealing with back to back.
Also, let's discuss few questions here.
The first question is explain various ways to declare a string variable.
So these are the different ways you can declare a string.
That is also another way, which is a string class.
So you can create an object of a string class, but that's a different discussion.
So at the moment we are using these three ways to declare a core string variable.
The second question is how will you deal with Unicode characters?
So this is how you deal with Unicode.
You use slash you like.
Here we have displayed the copyright character and in this code we are displaying a smiley.
So this is a way to display a unique character.
The third question is show this index to display long Unicode characters.
So in this core sample itself, you see that we need to use the curly brackets when we have to display
the long Unicode character.